=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

SaharaSync - Sync freely

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<NOTE> I have not been working on this software actively for quite some time;
in early 2012, my need for it disappeared, and since then, a lot of great programs
that fulfill the same need have sprung up.  I look at the code every so often to make
sure it basically works, but active development has ceased.  If you have interest in
working on it, however, please let me know!

Sahara Sync is a file-synchronization program, simliar to web services such as
Dropbox.  The main difference is that with Sahara Sync, you are in control of
your data and the code that handles them.

=head1 OVERVIEW

Sahara Sync has two components: the host daemon and the client daemon.
If you're connecting to an existing Sahara Sync installation, you only
need to worry about the client daemon.

=head2 THE HOST DAEMON

The host daemon (also known as B<hostd>) is a process that runs on a server
and is responsible for storing your files and information about them.  It
also communicates changes as they happen to the connected client daemons.

For more information, see L<SaharaSync::Hostd>.

=head2 CLIENTD

The client daemon (also known as B<clientd>) is a process that runs on each
computer that wants to synchronize its files.  The client daemon detects
changes as they happen on that computer and sends them to a host daemon; it
also receives messages from the host daemon when another client daemon has
changed a file.

=head1 INSTALLATION

To get started using Sahara Sync, you need to install it if you haven't
already.  I'll continue this tutorial as if you need to set up both a host
daemon and a client daemon; feel free to ignore the host daemon parts if
you already have one to connect to.

=head2 INSTALLING HOSTD

To install hostd on a server, first create an account for hostd to run as.
This isn't strictly necessary, but it's good practice:

  rob@localhost $ sudo useradd saharasync
  rob@localhost $ sudo -u saharasync -i
  saharasync@localhost $

Also, make sure you have Perl 5.10 or greater installed on your server.  Most
servers have Perl already, so I won't cover that.

Because Sahara Sync has yet to be distributed as a package, you'll need to
install it via CPAN.  And in the interest of not polluting your system Perl
with a smorgasbord of dependencies, you should probably install them within
a perlbrew environment (for an explanation of perlbrew, please visit
L<http://perlbrew.pl>).  So install perlbrew:

  saharasync@localhost $ curl -kL http://install.perlbrew.pl | bash -
  saharasync@localhost $ echo "source ~/perl5/etc/bashrc" >> .bashrc # change for your
                                                                     # shell
  saharasync@localhost $ source ~/perl5/etc/bashrc

Also, you should install cpanminus, an alternative CPAN client.  You could use
the default CPAN client, but cpanminus won't bother you with a bunch of
questions:

  saharasync@localhost $ perlbrew install-cpanm

Now you'll need to build a Perl environment in which to install Sahara Sync
and its dependencies.  As of this writing, Perl 5.14.2 is the most current,
so we'll install that:

  saharasync@localhost $ perlbrew install --as saharasync perl-5.14.2

This builds a fresh Perl interpreter and runs its test suite, so this will
take about thirty minutes.

Now you can install Sahara Sync!  Go grab a coffee or something; this will
take a while!

  saharasync@localhost $ cpanm SaharaSync

=head2 INSTALLING CLIENTD

Since the client daemon and the host daemon are both in the same distribution,
you can follow the instructions above, starting with the part about installing
perlbrew.  Just make sure you install everything as the user that will
actually be using Sahara Sync!

=head1 SETUP

Setting up the daemons is pretty easy!

=head2 SETTING UP HOSTD

Setting up the host requires you to create a configuration file.  The
configuration file has three sections: storage options, server behavior options,
and logging options.  The Sahara Sync distribution comes with an example
configuration in B<host.yaml>; let's go over each section individually.

=head3 Storage

The storage section looks something like this:

  storage:
    type: 'DBIWithFS'
    dsn: 'dbi:Pg:dbname=sahara'
    storage_path: '/tmp/sahara'

The 'type' parameter specifies which storage backend to use.  For now, only
'DBIWithFS' is supported.  The remaining parameters are parameters to the
storage backend.  In the case of DBIWithFS, 'dsn' specifies the database
connection string (which we'll cover in a bit), and 'storage_path' specifies
where the actual files will be located on disk.  The storage_path should be
pretty straightforward; just pick a directory, create it, and change the value
in the configuration file.  The dsn is a little more complicated, as we need to
set up a database and initialize it with the Sahara Sync schema.  The DBIWithFS
backend currently supports SQLite, MySQL, and PostgreSQL; let's cover them
individually.

=head4 SQLite

SQLite is pretty easy to set up; just pick a spot for it and go!  I'll use
C</tmp/sahara-sync.db> as an example:

  saharasync@localhost $ sqlite3 -init schema.sqlite /tmp/sahara-sync.db

Done!  Now, for the dsn option, it should look something like this:

  dbi:SQLite:dbname=/tmp/sahara-sync.db

See the L<DBD::SQLite> documentation for more information on the dsn when using
SQLite.

=head4 MySQL

MySQL is a little more complicated to set up, but for the purposes of this
document, I'll assume you have a server running on localhost, and that you'll
be storing your data in a database called 'sahara'.  First, we need to install
the MySQL adapter for L<DBI>, the library that Perl uses to access databases:

  saharasync@localhost $ cpanm DBD::mysql

Now, let's create the database:

  saharasync@localhost $ echo 'create database sahara' | mysql -u $MY_USER --password=$MY_PASSWD --batch

And finally, initialize the schema:

  saharasync@localhost $ mysql -u $MY_USER --password=$MY_PASSWD --batch sahara < schema.mysql

Done!  Now, for the dsn option, it should look something like this:

  dbi:mysql:database=sahara

The DBIWithFS backend also supports a 'user' parameter and a 'password'
parameter; these should be set to a MySQL user and its password.

See the L<DBD::mysql> documentation for more information on the dsn when using
MySQL.

=head4 PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is about as complicated to set up as MySQL; like MySQL, I will
assume you have a server running on localhost, and that you'll be storing your
data in a databaes called 'sahara'.  Also like MySQL, we need to install the
PostgreSQL adapter for L<DBI>:

  saharasync@localhost $ cpanm DBD::Pg

Now, let's create the database:

  saharasync@localhost $ createdb -U $PGUSER --password sahara

And finally, initialize the schema:

  saharasync@localhost $ psql -X -f schema.psql -U $PGUSER --password sahara

Done!  Now, for the dsn option, it should look something like this:

  dbi:Pg:database=sahara

The DBIWithFS backend also supports a 'user' parameter and a 'password'
parameter; these should be set to a PostgreSQL user and its password.

See the L<DBD::Pg> documentation for more information on the dsn when using
PostgreSQL.

=head4 Creating your user

Unfortunately, Sahara Sync doesn't currently expose an interface for creating
users, so you'll need to do it directly via SQL.  Log in to your database of
choice and submit the following statement:

  INSERT INTO users (username, password) VALUES ('USERNAME', 'PASSWORD');

=head3 Server

The server section isn't specified in the example configuration file, but if it
were, the defaults would look like this:

  server:
    host: 0.0.0.0
    port: 5982
    disable_streaming: false

The 'host' option specifies the bind address.  You won't usually touch this,
unless you intend to put the host daemon behind a proxy, or you only intend to
access the host via an SSH tunnel.

The 'port' option specifies which port the host daemon will listen on.  The
default is probably fine.

The 'disable_streaming' option specifies whether or not the host daemon should
allow for the streaming of changes.  When disabled, clients must poll the host
daemon for changes, which is less efficient.  However, streaming changes aren't
supported in every environment.

=head3 Logging

The logging section of the host daemon configuration is a series of
configuration objects.  Each object has a 'type' key, which specifies what
kind of logger to create.  These types are provided to L<Log::Dispatch>, so
if you specify 'File' as your logger's type, a L<Log::Dispatch::File> object
will be used as one of your loggers.  You may specify as many loggers as you
like; the daemon will run as long as at least one of them is loaded
successfully.  If you specify the 'mandatory' key in a logger's configuration,
the daemon will fail to run if that logger cannot be loaded.  Here's an
example log section that appends output to a file called
C</var/log/saharasync/hostd.log>:

  log:
    -
      type: File
      min_level: info
      newline: true
      mode: '>>'
      filename: '/var/log/saharasync/hostd.log'

=head2 SETTING UP CLIENTD

If you put your hostd behind an SSL reverse proxy, you'll need to
install the L<Net::SSLeay> module.

=head1 RUNNING THE DAEMONS

=head2 RUNNING HOSTD

=head2 RUNNING CLIENTD

=head1 DEVELOPMENT

=head1 GETTING HELP

=head2 IRC

We have a channel on L<irc.freenode.net>: #saharasync.

=head2 MAILING LIST

We also have a mailing list! L<users@saharasync.net>

=head2 WEBSITE

We even have a website! L<http://saharasync.net>

=head1 FAQ

=head1 AUTHOR

Rob Hoelz <rob@hoelz.ro>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2015 by Rob Hoelz.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU Affero General Public License, Version 3, November 2007

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website
https://github.com/hoelzro/sahara-sync/issues

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
