package SaharaSync; # keep PodWeaver happy

# ABSTRACT: Sync freely

=head1 DESCRIPTION

If you're reading this and are confused about what this is, I suggest you skip
ahead to the L<""/FAQ> section.

=head1 OVERVIEW

Sahara Sync has two components: the host daemon and the client daemon.
If you're connecting to an existing Sahara Sync installation, you only
need to worry about the client daemon.

=head2 THE HOST DAEMON

The host daemon (also known as B<hostd>) is a process that runs on a server
and is responsible for storing your files and information about them.  It
also communicates changes as they happen to the connected client daemons.

For more information, see L<SaharaSync::Hostd>.

=head2 CLIENTD

The client daemon (also known as B<clientd>) is a process that runs on each
computer that wants to synchronize its files.  The client daemon detects
changes as they happen on that computer and sends them to a host daemon; it
also receives messages from the host daemon when another client daemon has
changed a file.

=head1 INSTALLATION

To get started using Sahara Sync, you need to install it if you haven't
already.  I'll continue this tutorial as if you need to set up both a host
daemon and a client daemon; feel free to ignore the host daemon parts if
you already have one to connect to.

=head2 INSTALLING HOSTD

To install hostd on a server, first create an account for hostd to run as.
This isn't strictly necessary, but it's good practice:

  rob@localhost $ sudo useradd saharasync
  rob@localhost $ sudo -u saharasync -i
  saharasync@localhost $

Also, make sure you have Perl 5.10 or greater installed on your server.  Most
servers have Perl already, so I won't cover that.

Because Sahara Sync has yet to be distributed as a package, you'll need to
install it via CPAN.  And in the interest of not polluting your system Perl
with a smorgasbord of dependencies, you should probably install them within
a perlbrew environment (for an explanation of perlbrew, please visit
L<http://perlbrew.pl>).  So install perlbrew:

  saharasync@localhost $ curl -kL http://install.perlbrew.pl | bash -
  saharasync@localhost $ echo "source ~/perl5/etc/bashrc" >> .bashrc # change for your
                                                                     # shell
  saharasync@localhost $ source ~/perl5/etc/bashrc

Also, you should install cpanminus, an alternative CPAN client.  You could use
the default CPAN client, but cpanminus won't bother you with a bunch of questions:

  saharasync@localhost $ perlbrew install-cpanm

Now you can install Sahara Sync!  Go grab a coffee or something; this will take a while!

  saharasync@localhost $ cpanm SaharaSync

=head2 INSTALLING CLIENTD

Since the client daemon and the host daemon are both in the same distribution, you can
follow the instructions above, starting with the part about installing perlbrew.  Just
make sure you install everything as the user that will actually be using Sahara Sync!

=head1 SETUP

Setting up the daemons is pretty easy!

=head2 SETTING UP HOSTD

First things first: we need to decide where to store the users' files, and where to
store information about those files.  The first is fairly simple; Sahara Sync just needs
to store the files in a directory, so create a directory somewhere (I usually choose
/var/lib/saharasync).  The second is a little trickier, as you have a choice: currently,
hostd can store file metadata in either SQLite, MySQL, and PostgreSQL.

=head3 SQLite

=head3 MySQL

=head3 PostgreSQL

=head2 SETTING UP CLIENTD

=head1 RUNNING THE DAEMONS

=head2 RUNNING HOSTD

=head2 RUNNING CLIENTD

=head1 DEVELOPMENT

=head1 GETTING HELP

=head2 IRC

=head2 MAILING LIST

=head2 WEBSITE

=head1 FAQ

=cut
